# English100ProccesEssay

This is the most basic landing page only using html and css, with ai assistance using chat gpt, have a look at the essay that was used to create the landing page 


Steven
Laura Leeper
ENGL100
17 February 2023
Coding and hosting your first Landing Page
Hello World! This is what you as a beginner programmer will print to the console when learning your first programming language, how exciting, I hope you are ready. First, what exactly is code?  Programmers have been writing code to create an application that solves problems and inconveniences, these applications run and are updated on mobile, desktop or tablet devices. The best way to approach learning to code is to have an idea in mind of an application that can be used for your needs and people's needs, take a moment to think about an application or app. Once you have thought about an idea it's time to execute, sit down at a computer and get ready! There are lots of new technologies like chat gpt for example that have made the field of computer science very much more approachable for newcomers.

First we shall begin with the setup, you will need a computer as modern as you can, Microsoft or apple is personal preference, both are used to produce code efficiently by skilled programmers, for reference I use apple. Now that you have a computer you will need to download various softwares to develop your webpage from scratch on your computer. First download VS code, this is a code editor, it is the user interface that all developers have to use for their workflow, next comes git, git is a version control system, its role is to allow you to save your code that you have written on your machine, to a remote repository on the site GitHub.  Github is free and open source meaning they encourage everyone to start learning code regardless of skill level and encourage you to eventually contribute back to the community by developing more open source services for people like you and me. All issues regarding installation of these two technologies on your machine can be solved using the documentation on their respective sites, google and chat gpt can be of assistance as well getting your setup complete. Now comes the coding. 

Begin by creating a folder on your machine, name it english100ProccesEssay, next open terminal, navigate to english100ProccesEssay folder, run cd english100ProccesEssay in terminal, once inside folder using terminal, run git init to initialize git repository, next, open vs code and add a index.html file in the root directory. We will be utilizing modern technologies like chat gpt to make us exponentially more efficient, open chat gpt, and ask “give me an index.html file for a basic modern landing page”, copy and paste in code editor, next we must style our landing page, ask chat gpt once again, to provide another file, this time ask for a styles.css file to go with the markup provided earlier. Once linked correctly, you should have something that looks decent, and somewhat professional, this is your first time again. Add a .nojekll file to the project root directory, this will ensure that our styles will render when we host our site on github. Open terminal once again on your machine, we must link out project on our machine to the remote repository on github, to do this we will need to run some commands on the command line, git init, git add . , git commit -m”firstCommit”, git push, enter username and generate a token as password, read documentation, if you have done all this correctly there are only a few more steps, on github, navigate to gitpages, set folder in root, save, copy the link to the landing page, and paste, here is the webpage I created for this process essay following these exact steps, here is the link the the web page, https://stevenmachuca144.github.io/English100ProccesEssay/. On this page you will see that there is a button you can click, this will take you to github and you will be able to see the source code that make up this webpage, and also where this webpage is hosted for free. A few extra modifications that I did, were changing the structure of the index.html file provided by chat gpt, change the text and margins on elements. Congrats, if you competed you should be proud, coding a webpage and hosting is a essential for a programmer, this was also not programming at all this is just markup and styling, to teach about programming would be to long for this project. This is a skill any developer is expected to know and you should be proud if you did your best to follow along, and produced something somewhat applicable. 


